.TH qlibs: pathexec 3
.SH NAME
pathexec \- run a program within a given environment
.SH SYNTAX
.B #include \(dqpathexec.h\(dq

\fBpathexec_run\fP(char *\fIp\fR,char **\fIa\fR,char **\fIe\fR);
.br
\fBpathexec\fP(char **\fIa\fR);
.br
\fBpathexec_env\fP(char *\fIs\fR,char *\fIt\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pathexec_run 
searches for a program named 
.IR p . 
It replaces the current process with a copy of that program. 
The main function in that program will be given arguments 
.I a 
and environment 
.IR  e .
.B pathexec_run 
looks for 
.I p 
as specified by the 
.I $PATH 
environment variable. 
.I $PATH 
is a colon-separated list of directories 
.IR d ;
.B pathexec_run 
tries 
.B execve 
on files named 
.IR d/p , 
in the order that the directories appear inside 
.IR $PATH . 
An empty directory name is treated as a single dot.

If 
.I $PATH 
is not set, 
.B pathexec_run 
uses the path 
.IR  /bin:/usr/bin ; 
i.e., it tries 
.B execve 
on 
.IR /bin/p , 
then 
.IR /usr/bin/p .

If 
.I p 
contains a slash, 
.B pathexec_run 
ignores 
.I $PATH 
and simply runs 
.B execve 
on a file named 
.IR p .

.B pathexec 
calls 
.B pathexec_run 
with program name 
.IR a[0] , 
arguments 
.IR a , 
and the same environment as the current process, 
modified as described below. 
.B pathexec 
has the same return behavior as 
.BR pathexec_run .
.B pathexec_env 
modifies the environment used by 
.BR pathexec . 
It removes a variable named 
.IR s, 
if one exists. It then adds a variable named 
.I s 
with value 
.IR t, 
if the pointer 
.I t 
is nonzero. The name 
.I s 
must not contain 
.IR = .
.SH "RETURN CODES"
Normally
.B pathexec_run
does not return, because the process has been replaced.
However, if all the
.B execve
attempts fail,
.B pathexec_run
returns, setting
.I errno
to the most interesting error returned by
.BR execve .
Furthermore,
.B pathexec_run
returns immediately if an
.B execve
attempt fails with an error other than
.IR error_noent ,
.IR error_acces ,
.IR error_perm ,
or
.IR  error_isdir .
This list is subject to change.

Normally 
.B pathexec_env 
returns 
.IR 1 . 
If it is unable to allocate memory, it returns 
.IR 0 , 
leaving the 
.B pathexec 
environment alone.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
error(3)
